---
title: BASH
date: 2024-10-23 14:43:00 Z
---

# Important locale category variables

A locale category is a group of data that's specific to a language  locality (Country/Region) or cultural convention. Locale categories are used by localization routines to specify which parts of a program's locale information to use.

* LANG    Locale categories not specifically selected with a variable starting with `LC_.`

* LC_CTYPE   Process txt byte by byte.  Affect the behavior of character classes within filename expansion and pattern matching.

* [LC_COLLATE](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/75341/specify-the-sort-order-with-lc-collate-so-lowercase-is-before-uppercase)  How strings are compared and sorted.  Affect the sorting order.  Specially  determines how b-tree indexes on string columns are ordered. (PostgreSQL).

* LC_ALL   Overrides the value of `LANG`and any other `LC_`variable specifying a locale category.

* LC_MESSAGES

* LC_TIME

* LC_NUMERIC

# Loading Sequence

/etc/profile -> /etc/bashrc ->  \~/.bash_profile -> \~/.bashrc

profile is executed for login shell,   while bashrc is executed for interactive non-login  shell.  But, if you’ve already logged into your machine and open a new terminal window (xterm) then `bashrc`i s executed before the window command prompt.`.bashrc`is also run when you start a new bash instance by typing `/bin/bash`in a terminal.

On MacOS, Terminal by default runs a login shell every time, so this is a little different to most other systems.

# Customization

### **PS1 **

The primary prompt string,  will be expanded accordingly before displayed.

Example:

`PS1='\e[1;32m$(date) \u@\h:$PWD\n\e[0m\e[1;33m\u >\e[0m '`

\\e\[1;32m,  \\e\]1;33m  color green, yellow

\\e\[0m  color end, reset color to default after this

`Thu Oct 24 20:19:45 CST 2024 ospost@MacPro:/Users/ospost`

`ospost >`

Command paste on the terminal  with upper setting will cause some kind of mismatch,  although it's fine when executing, but position mismatch brings a lot disturb.   Reference #4  explains very well with the underlying mechanism.  In my tests,   \\\[, \\\]  are workable just like \\001, \\002.

*`PS1='\[\e[1;32m\]$(date) \u@\h:$PWD\[\e[0m\]\n\[\e[1;33m\]\u >\[\e[0m\] '`*

*`PS1='\001\e[1;32m\002$(date) \u@\h:$PWD\001\e[0m\002\n\001\e[1;33m\002\u >\001\e[0m\002 '`*

It's been good so far despites not human readable.

### **PROMPT_COMMAND**  

If this variable is set, and is an array, the value of each set element is interpreted as a command to execute before printing the primary prompt (`$PS1`). If this is set but not an array variable, its value is used as a command to execute instead.

Another version with PROMPT_COMMAND,  move detailed info into PROMPT_COMMAND,  then 'tab' will not bring it out every time.

*`PS1='\001\e[1;33m\002\u >\001\e[0m\002 ' PROMPT_COMMAND+=( #'your extra command here' 'printf "\\001\\e[1;32m\\002%s %s@%s:%s\\001\\e[0m\\002\n" "$(date)" "$(whoami)" "$(hostname)" "$PWD" ')`*

### Add Git Branch in prompt

*`function parse_git_branch() { 
  BRANCH=git branch 2> /dev/null | sed -e '/^[^]/d' -e 's/* (.*)/\1/'`
  if [ "${BRANCH}" == "" ]
  then
     echo ""
  else
     echo "(${BRANCH})"
  fi
}`*

*`#nps='['
#npe=']'
nps='\001'
npe='\002'
txtred="${nps}\e[0;31m${npe}" # Red
txtgrn="${nps}\e[0;32m${npe}" # Green
bldgrn="${nps}\e[1;32m${npe}" # Bold Green
bldyel="${nps}\e[1;33m${npe}" # Bold Yellow
bldpur="${nps}\e[1;35m${npe}" # Bold Purple
txtrst="${nps}\e[0m${npe}" # Text Reset
PS1="${bldyel}\u`parse_git_branch` $${txtrst} "
PROMPT_COMMAND+=(
  #'your extra command here'
  '
  printf "\001\e[1;32m\002%s %s@%s:%s\001\e[0m\002\n" "$(date)" "$(whoami)".     "$(hostname)" "$PWD"
  '
)`*

# Reference

1. *[Bash Reference Manual](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/bash.html)*

2. *[Explain the effects of export LANG, LC_CTYPE, and LC_ALL](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/30479607/explain-the-effects-of-export-lang-lc-ctype-and-lc-all)*

3. *[What is the difference between .bash_profile and .bashrc](https://apple.stackexchange.com/questions/51036/what-is-the-difference-between-bash-profile-and-bashrc)*

4. *[Bash: PS1 vs Prompt Command to set prompt and title](https://superuser.com/questions/1619614/bash-ps1-vs-prompt-command-to-set-prompt-and-title)*

5. *[Is $PROMPT_COMMAND a colon-separated list?](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/460651/is-prompt-command-a-colon-separated-list)*